---
name: 932 17th Ave E
lat, lng: 47.62784846469219, -122.30969646343972
address: 932 17th Ave E
year: 1911
image: images/93217th.png
---

A block off of Millionaires Row and fronting Volunteer Park is one of my favorite homes designed by local architect Arthur Loveless. This architect came to Seattle in 1907, and for several years, he worked in partnership with Clayton Wilson, designing primarily larger residences, the Alexander Pantages house in Washington Park perhaps being their most famous. Loveless was known for his eclectic homes, which often were designed in the Tudor revival idiom such as his iconic Studio Building, now known as the Loveless Building.

This home is a similar manifestation of Loveless's love for the Elizabethan archtype. In particular, the style of this house is technically English Arts & Crafts, which obviously borrows heavily from Tudor architecture. The cladding is the signature combination of clinker brick on the first floor with stucco and half-timbering on the upper stories. The datk green stucco with charcoal timbering is a recent color scheme, but I think it still works here. The composition is slightly more formal than usual with two gabled wings mostly asymmetricaly flanking the primary hipped massing of the home. The large shed-roofed dormer illuminates the large top story ballroom that was built for the original owners. The central entry is nestled within a rustic loggia with pairs of wood columns. All of the smaller details are worth appreciating, such as the multipaned leaded casement windows, the decorative clicker brick chimneys, and the timbering arranged in lozenge shapes.

The home was designed for William Bloch, a prominent member of the local German community and the owner of the Germania Café in downtown. After completion, The Seattle Times lauded Bloch’s home as a “magnificent new residence” whose exterior “scarcely gives a true idea of its beauties. Besides its top story ballroom, the home features an elegant basement "rathskellar" for entertaining, with handpainted scenes of Bloch’s native country. The Blochs were said to have hosted seated dinners for up to 200 people in this magnificent Tudor home. 